gist-template.md, before:

# Regex Tutorial for Email Addresses

Regular expression (known as RegEx) is a pattern of characters used to validate character combinations being read inside of coding languages. This tutorial shows a breakdown of a RegEx for an email.

## Summary

A RegEx for emails uses specific characters to encode the input address. Below is our example:

```/^([a-z0-9_\.-]+)@([\da-z\.-]+)\.([a-z\.]{2,6})$/```

## Table of Contents

- [Regex Tutorial for Email Addresses](#regex-tutorial-for-email-addresses)
  - [Summary](#summary)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Regex Components](#regex-components)
    - [Anchors](#anchors)
    - [Quantifiers](#quantifiers)
    - [OR Operator](#or-operator)
    - [Character Classes](#character-classes)
    - [Flags](#flags)
    - [Grouping and Capturing](#grouping-and-capturing)
    - [Bracket Expressions](#bracket-expressions)
    - [Greedy and Lazy Match](#greedy-and-lazy-match)
    - [Boundaries](#boundaries)
    - [Back-references](#back-references)
    - [Look-ahead and Look-behind](#look-ahead-and-look-behind)
  - [Author](#author)

## Regex Components

### Anchors

The begining of the string is identified by the caret ```^``` and the end of the string is identified by the dollar sign ```$```

### Quantifiers

```+``` is used to communicate there is another sequence to be matched as a greedy quantifier. ```{2,6}``` is another greedy quantifer used to specify the input that there should be a minimum of 2 characrtors to a maximum of 6 characters.

### OR Operator

Use the ```|``` operator (logical OR) to match characters or expression of either the left or right of the ```|``` operator.

### Character Classes

The period symbol ```.``` will match any character except line breaks. in our example the ```.``` actually refers to the periods in the email and are not a character class.

### Flags

Flags are optional and change its behavior of searching; flags are denoted using a single lowercase alphabetic character. To give multiple flags to a regex, we write them one after another (without any spaces or other delimiters). 

In regex for JavaScript, there's a total of 6 flags, with each having a different purpose.

### Grouping and Capturing

### Bracket Expressions

### Greedy and Lazy Match

### Boundaries

### Back-references

### Look-ahead and Look-behind

## Author

My name is Kate, and I am a coding bootcamp student. [Github](https://github.com/katensullivan55)

Commit message:

filled in through bacck-references

gist-template.md, after:

# Regex Tutorial for Email Addresses

Regular expression (known as RegEx) is a pattern of characters used to validate character combinations being read inside of coding languages. This tutorial shows a breakdown of a RegEx for an email.

## Summary

A RegEx for emails uses specific characters to encode the input address. Below is our example:

```/^([a-z0-9_\.-]+)@([\da-z\.-]+)\.([a-z\.]{2,6})$/```

## Table of Contents

- [Regex Tutorial for Email Addresses](#regex-tutorial-for-email-addresses)
  - [Summary](#summary)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Regex Components](#regex-components)
    - [Anchors](#anchors)
    - [Quantifiers](#quantifiers)
    - [OR Operator](#or-operator)
    - [Character Classes](#character-classes)
    - [Flags](#flags)
    - [Grouping and Capturing](#grouping-and-capturing)
    - [Bracket Expressions](#bracket-expressions)
    - [Greedy and Lazy Match](#greedy-and-lazy-match)
    - [Boundaries](#boundaries)
    - [Back-references](#back-references)
    - [Look-ahead and Look-behind](#look-ahead-and-look-behind)
  - [Author](#author)

## Regex Components

### Anchors

The begining of the string is identified by the caret ```^``` and the end of the string is identified by the dollar sign ```$```

### Quantifiers

```+``` is used to communicate there is another sequence to be matched as a greedy quantifier. ```{2,6}``` is another greedy quantifer used to specify the input that there should be a minimum of 2 characrtors to a maximum of 6 characters.

### OR Operator

Use the ```|``` operator (logical OR) to match characters or expression of either the left or right of the ```|``` operator.

### Character Classes

The period symbol ```.``` will match any character except line breaks. in our example the ```.``` actually refers to the periods in the email and are not a character class.

### Flags

Flags are optional and change its behavior of searching; flags are denoted using a single lowercase alphabetic character. To give multiple flags to a regex, we write them one after another (without any spaces or other delimiters). 

In regex for JavaScript, there's a total of 6 flags, with each having a different purpose.

### Grouping and Capturing

There are three groups that are being captured in this example. The first group is the username of the e-mail account ```[a-z0-9_\.-]```. The second group captures the domain name being used ```[\da-z\.-]```. The third group captures the domain extention, ".com" ```[a-z\.]{2,6}```.

### Bracket Expressions

There are 3 bracket expressions within the example listed above. The information in the bracket expressions is opened and closed between brackets ```[]```. This indentifies which information is allowed to be matched.

*1st Expression:* ```[a-z0-9_\.-]``` - includes case sensitive characters from a-z and also numbers from 0-9 an underscore along with periods and hyphens.

*2nd Expression:* ```[\da-z\.-]``` - includes all digits, case sensitive characters from a-z, periods, and hyphens

*3rd Expression:* ```[a-z\.]``` - includes case sensitive characters from a-z and periods.

### Greedy and Lazy Match

Lazy quantifiers marked. So far in this example, we have only used greedy quantifiers ```+``` and ```{}```. If these quantifiers were lazy quantifiers, they would appear as ```+?``` or ```{}?``` meaning it will direct the system to make the shortest match possible.

### Boundaries

Boundaries ```\b``` make assertions about what can be matched to the left and right of the current position. In non-Unicode mode, it matches a position where only one side is an ASCII letter, digit or underscore. In Unicode mode, it matches a position where only one side is a Unicode letter, digit or underscore. ```\B```
Replace both ```^``` and ```$``` with ```\b```. 

### Back-references

Back-references are regex commands which refer to a previous part of the matched regular expression. Back-references are specified with backslash and a single digit: ```\1```. 

### Look-ahead and Look-behind

## Author

My name is Kate, and I am a coding bootcamp student. [Github](https://github.com/katensullivan55)
